Experiment and metrics design:


1) What would you choose as the key measure of success of this experiment in
encouraging driver partners to serve both cities, and why would you choose this metric?

    
    If up to this point the two way toll is high enough to have been inhibitory for drivers to travel between cities to pick up/drop off fares it makes sense to compare the net revenue between drivers in the control group versus those assigned to the treatment group. This allows Ultimate to compete with public transportation options between the cities which, due to crossing jurisdiction lines could be unreliable. Essentially if the net revenue generated by the drivers in the treatment group outweighs the revenue generated by drivers in the control group then it would be a viable option. 
    
    
    
2) Describe a practical experiment you would design to compare the effectiveness of the proposed change in relation to the key measure of success. Please provide details on:
    a) how you will implement the experiment?
    
    This experiment will consist of randomly assigning a subset of drivers in both Gotham and Metropolis and running a test for a period of time long enough to assess the cost/benefit of the program, say, one month. This is to hopefully control for the novelty effect and assess the amount of intra-city travel as well as the cost overtime.
    
    b) what statistical test(s) you will conduct to verify the significance of the
observation?

    For this it make sense to measure the difference in population means with a two sample t-test: either Welches or the Student's depending on population size and variance within groups. We could compare the mean net revenue generated by each group at the end of each week throughout the month.
    
    If the revenue generated is not normally distributed for both/either of the groups then a Mann-Whitney test will be used to measure the median revenue generated between groups.

    c) how you would interpret the results and provide recommendations to the city
operations team along with any caveats.

    Interpreting the results would require looking at the net revenue for each group to determine what the % increase or decrease was over the entire period and how this changed at each weekly check. If there was sustained increase over the entire trial period then it makes sense to implement the program. If there is a sharp increase at the beginning and a tappering off to nearly identical values that might suggest that there is a great possibility for losing money in the long term.